# CrappyGameLauncher

Hello! This sucks.

One day, it will not suck, so this readme will change in the near future (hopefully, unless I get hit by a bus and never develop this further ever again). But until now, it does.

Name should be self explanatory. Launcher for games (primarily the emulated kind), is crappy (currently).

The goals here can basically be summed up as "modularity":  
- You can use the emulators that you already have installed (or are going to install), so they're up to date and and aren't forks which may have altered compatibility
- You can use whatever frontend you want on top of this: This just generates launchers, and you can decide how you want to use them, instead of being locked down to some giant frontend which combines all the things and doesn't let you mix and match functionality
- Code is organized, hopefully, in such a way that it should be relatively easy to add your own emulators if you have some new one that I didn't think about

It's not intended to be hard to use, it's just not a priority to make it easier to use, because I'm lazy I guess. It just does the thing.

The other neat tricks are that it will automatically get metadata from the games where it can, not using any weird internet service that may disappear, but from what's inside the games themselves. Also it will automatically figure out which emulator (where emulation is applicable) is the best one to use for a given game, out of the emulators you selected.

These config files will appear in ~/.config/CrappyGameLauncher (see also config.py config_dir for where that's set). Ideally I want to make some kind of configurator, but that'd be a separate thing:
- config.ini
  - Main configuration, which specifies where your launchers are output to and other things like that.
- emulators.ini
  - For roms.py, dos.py and mac.py; this is where you specify where your games are located and which emulators you want to use. You can use multiple ROM directories and multiple emulators; with the latter, it'll use the emulator you specified first, and if that emulator won't work with a given game, it'll try the next emulator, etc.
- ignored_directories.txt
  - List of directories to ignore despite them being inside your ROM folders. Sometimes you just have subfolders that you don't want having launchers for. One directory per line. This doesn't appear by default, but you can just create it.
- dos.ini, mac.ini
  - These are automatically generated by the respective modules, but you might need to edit them.

There's also name_consistency.ini which I've for some reason decided to put in the source directory here. It makes names consistent.

DOS and Mac games will require [https://github.com/Zowayix/computer-software-db](ComputerSoftwareDB), or you could look at how the database format works there, and make your own.

Once you have everything set up, just run main.py to output all the launchers to the designated output folder. It takes a while. Oh well.  
Command line arguments:  
- --debug
  - Displays a lot of console spam. I should probably make this more specific with different command line arguments for what kind of console spam. But I haven't. Mostly it'll just tell you "there's something weird about this ROM, or it's not able to be emulated yet", and that sort of thing.
- --super-debug
  - This is for even more console spam when regular --debug isn't enough. It's basically used for disambiguate.py to tell you every single launcher that gets disambiguated.
- --print-times
  - Prints how long stuff takes.
- --regen-dos-config
  - Regenerates DOSBox config files for DOS games. Normally it just uses what's already there (allowing you to tweak them for your own evil purposes).
- --no-arcade
  - Skips mame_machines.py. It takes a while, but then so does roms.py these days, so... should I have this here? Hmm
- --organize-folders
  - Activates the in-built thing where it organizes your launchers into folders.
	- --extra-folders
	  - Even more folders for metadata that probably nobody cares about.

Sources of games:  
- roms.py
  - This is probably what most people are interested in: Just normal ROMs to be used with an emulator. For every kind of platform possible, I don't just include the platforms that are "popular". If it can be emulated, it can have a launcher generated.
  - Also contains games with source ports or engines, like Doom and whatnot.
  - To use with individual systems, use the --systems argument and then a comma-separated list of system names, e.g. --systems GBA,N64
  - To use with a single ROM, use the --rom argument with a path and then a system name, e.g.: --rom /path/blah.tap C64 (this will probably not be too useful except for debugging/development/etc)
- mame_machines.py
  - For arcade romsets, except they aren't always arcade machines anyway, this will also include handheld systems and plug & play consoles and all of that sort of thing. It only creates launchers for romsets you actually have, of course. None of that crap where it lists "unavailable" machines, because that doesn't really make sense.
- scummvm.py
  - Games that are "emulated" (is that really the right word?) via ScummVM. You'd need to configure them and put them in your ScummVM library first.
- dos.py
  - DOS executables, not floppy disks or stuff like that yet. They're intended to be used with something like DOSBox, where you have a folder that pretends to be a hard drive on a DOS machine.
  - Creates DOSBox configuration files for each game (if you're using DOSBox, which you would be unless you tweaked the code yourself).
  - Requires you to run this module with the --scan argument first in order to figure out what games you actually have.
- mac.py
  - Mac software, stored in a hard disk image (because that's how you would generally want to do this). 
  - This is the part that sucks the most, because right now you need a script inside the Mac boot disk to read from the shared folder (so you need an emulator that supports that too) and automatically boot stuff...
  - Requires hfsutils. Yeah....
  - Also requires you to run this module with the --scan argument.

Other places of interest:  
- disambiguate.py
  - Let's say you have like, 20 different ports of Pac-Man, or something. This will enable you to tell which is which, it'll change the name of the launcher, depending on various metadata. Otherwise you'd just get a lot of launchers that are all named "Pac-Man".
- organize_folders.py
  - This is like a builtin mini-frontend. After dealing with all your launchers, it copies them all into lots of subfolders, and you can browse them that way.

And then you can take those .desktop files and do what you want. Put them in your applications menu, put them into Steam, that's your own business, and I won't force any particular thing on you.

In future I want to make a GUI frontend myself but I haven't yet.

Use [https://gist.github.com/Zowayix/f511490865bc5aa8a66ad0776ae066df](this) to regenerate nintendo_licensee_codes from ROMniscience's source if you need to (adjusting the local path to the source file accordingly). Not that anyone would probably want this project if I got hit by a bus, but maybe someone wants to know how to do that. I'm not cool enough to have any sort of automated build steps or whatever.

So that's the readme so far. I've never really been good at them. Sorry. I'll just have to make it up as I go along.